Abolishing the Electoral College
The Electoral College, the method used to elect the president of the United States, is a frequently debated topic in Congress. In fact, “Nearly one-tenth of all constitutional amendments proposed in congress have sought Electoral College reform” (“Rethinking the Electoral College Debate”). With so much energy and attention put forth to alter how the president is elected, it is logical that the current system may contain flaws. Some people do not believe this system is flawed; however, the Electoral College has many drawbacks that include the following: the candidate with the most votes does not always win; each person’s vote does not carry the same weight; and swing states get more attention from candidates than other states. For these reasons, the Electoral College should be replaced by a system that chooses the president with a popular vote.
There are many arguments formed by those who think the current system works well, but the majority of them lack solid reasoning. One argument of supporters of the Electoral College is that it has a high accuracy rate when compared to the result of the popular vote. In one article, Thomas Neale wrote, “It’s pretty accurate. The Electoral College has a more than 90 percent success rate” (McCleary). This may seem like a reason to keep the electoral college, however, having an election decided by the popular vote alone would result in an accuracy rate of 100 percent. Because a popular vote is a more accurate way to choose the president, it should replace the Electoral College system. Another reason supporters of the Electoral College think it is a better than the popular vote is that many of them believe swing state voters are more thoughtful when voting. According to the article, “In Defense of the Electoral College,” the swing state voters “are more likely to pay close attention to the campaign… knowing that they are going to decide the election,” and, “the most thoughtful voters should be the ones to decide the election” (Posner). This argument is faulty for a couple of reasons. First, there is no evidence that shows that the people in swing states consistently pay more attention and are more thoughtful than voters in other states. Second, this is based off the assumption that voters in other states are not attentive and thoughtful. The impaired arguments about accuracy rate and swing state voters’ tendencies are two of many reasons those who support the Electoral College lack solid reasoning for their opinion. 
Along with these issues regarding the Electoral College supporters’ arguments, another problem with the Electoral College is that the candidate that receives the most votes does not always win. In some cases, the presidential candidate who received the most popular votes did not become the president because of the Electoral College. In fact, “Four presidents—Rutherford B. Hayes in 1876, Benjamin Harrison in 1888, George W. Bush in 2000, and Donald Trump in 2016—were elected with fewer popular votes than their opponents” (“Electoral College”). In these situations, more people voted for a different person to lead the United States than the person who actually ended up in office. This type of result should not be allowed in the democratic United States because, “the Electoral College is an undemocratic institution” (“The Pros and Cons of the Electoral College System”). It seems almost ironic that the president, the leader of the free world, is elected by a system that is not democratic. Because the Electoral College violates the principle of democracy, it should be abolished and replaced by a system that follows the values of the United States. The replacement system should be democratic, which would mean that the president would be the candidate with the highest number of votes. 
Along with being undemocratic, another issue with the Electoral College is that votes in different states do not have equal values. One article explains the different value from each state by giving the following example:
Each individual vote in Wyoming counts nearly four times as much in the Electoral College as each individual vote in Texas . . . By dividing the population by electoral votes, we can see that Wyoming has one ‘elector’ for every 177,556 people and Texas has one ‘elector’ for about every 715,499 (“Problems with the Electoral College”).
This stark difference in vote value is unfair to voters in Texas and gives voters in Wyoming more influence over which candidate receives the electoral votes for their state. By one vote having up to four times as much influence as one vote in another state “the system violates the one-person, one-vote principle” (“Rethinking the Electoral College Debate: The Framers, Federalism, and One Person, One Vote”). In a country that values equality, there is a blatant lack of it in the system that chooses the president. Because of this unfairness, the United States should adopt a system that chooses the president based off of the popular vote. By using the popular votes, no voter would be more influential than another. This would equalize the weight of each individual vote between states of both low and high populations. 
	In addition to some votes being more influential than others, another problem with the Electoral College is that swing states receive more attention from candidates than other states. Many states consistently vote in support for either the Democratic or Republican candidate, so presidential candidates usually do not spend time campaigning in states where the results are very predictable one way or the other. Instead, they spend time campaigning in states where the state could potentially be persuaded to vote for their party by raising awareness for issues that are important to voters in that specific state (“National Popular Vote”). Because the elections are decided by these swing states, voters in other states may not be fully informed on each candidates view point. Another issue with the focus of candidates on swing states is that voters besides “a handful of states and their concerns and views are ignored by the campaigns and later by the administration of whoever is elected” (Silberstein). Because non-swing state issues are often ignored by the president and their administration, the system that elects the president should be altered to focus on issues that the country sees as the most important problems. By incentivizing candidates to campaign in only a few states and focus only on problems that swing states find important, the Electoral College causes citizens to be uninformed about candidates viewpoints and can create a presidential administration that has an agenda that only benefits swing states. In order to resolve these issues, the United States must come up with a replacement to the electoral college that will motivate candidates to campaign and inform voters across the country and focus on concerns other than those that only affect swing states.
	The excessive attention given to swing states, inequality of votes between states, and absence of democracy are three reasons that the Electoral College should be abolished. This said, it would be nearly impossible to pass an amendment to change the current system and switch to a popular vote system. An amendment would be difficult to pass because it would have to be “passed by two-thirds of the House and Senate and approved by 38 States,” which is “an unlikely event because many small States would have to agree to a change that would reduce their influence in presidential elections” ("The Electoral College Debate"). Although an amendment may not change the system, there is another option that involves individual states passing a compact that would essentially elect the president based off the popular vote results. The National Popular Vote (NPV) is a statute states can pass that pledges all of their electoral votes to winner of the popular vote. In order for this initiative to be successful, enough states must pass it to reach 270 electoral votes (“The Electoral College Debate”). This legislation has already been passed in ten states and the District of Columbia, and an additional twelve state legislatures have passed the NPV through one of their legislative bodies. If these twelve state legislatures along with a few more successfully pass the NPV statute, the total electoral votes will have the the 270 needed to win the presidency (Silberstein). If the NPV passes in enough states, the president would be decided based off of the popular vote alone, and all the issues that occur with the Electoral College would be completely avoided. 
	By continuing to use the Electoral College system to choose the president, swing states will receive more attention than other states, votes in different states will be unequal, and the popular vote winner may not always become the president. Although there are some reasons people support the Electoral College, many are based off of faulty reasoning and all are outweighed by its drawbacks. Because it is unlikely that an amendment will pass to switch to a popular vote, the NPV legislation should be passed to essentially elect the president based off of popular votes. State politicians should advocate for the passage the NPV in order to solve all of the issue created by the Electoral College and to choose the president based off the popular vote which follows the equal, democratic principles that the United States was founded upon.
