The discord between and northern and southern states as a result of different interpretations of the constitution was the primary cause for the Civil War. The North believed that the constitution secession was illegal. The South, on the other hand, believed that if necessary, states should be able to secede. These two different views caused such disunity that eventually the South did attempt to secede which started the Civil War. 
The North did not feel as if the writers of the constitution did not include the right of secession of states in the constitution intentionally. When some states in the south seceded, Lincoln explained on multiple occasions that is was impossible to secede from the Union.  In a message to to Congress on July 4th, 1861 President Abraham Lincoln stated, “Having never been States, either in substance, or in name outside of the Union, whence this magical omnipotence of ‘State rights,’ asserting a claim of power to lawfully destroy the Union itself?” The purpose of this quote was to inform congress it was impossible for the southern states to leave the Union because nowhere in or outside of the constitution’s legislation did it say that the individual states can leave the Union and become their own confederacy. This statement represents the majority of northerners views on the topic of secession. Lincoln believed that because the South was still physically connected with the North, the South couldn’t just decided to split off and become their own sovereign nation. The South believed that even with all of these issues, it would still be most beneficial for them to split off and become a completely separate nation. The president of the southern Confederacy, Jefferson Davis, believed that the South had been trampled on by the federal government and that the South should become a loose alliance of states, rather than have a tyrannical central government. In one of his messages to the Confederate Congress, he was recorded to have said, “It was by the delegates chosen by the several states... that the Constitution of the United States was framed in 1787 and submitted to the several States for ratification... These States endeavored in every possible form to exclude the idea that the separate and independent sovereignty of each State was merged into one common government and nation, and ... to impress on the Constitution its true character - that of a compact between independent states.” The point of view of this statement from Jefferson Davis is that a confederacy is a better system than the Union’s federal system. This statement also displays the general opinion of the South. They believed that it would be better to have a confederacy because they felt as if that’s what the intended interpretation of the constitution was. Because the states were necessary to create the federal government, they argued the states should be able to do break off if they thought the central government was not leaving enough power for the states. The differing opinions on how much power the states were given according to the constitution acted as a catalyst for commencing the Civil War. An argument that occurred in America’s history before this point that was very similar was the argument over the national bank between Alexander Hamilton, who was for the bank, and Thomas Jefferson, who was against the bank. These issue of the bank and the issue of secession are similar because a neither national bank or secession were directly addressed in the constitution. For this reason, many people who felt strongly about these different issues got in heated arguments, however, the bank issue did not cause a physical war, but the secession issue did. Along with the documents given, another recorded event that happened at this time period related to this issue was the Dred Scott case. In this case it was ruled that Scott, a free black man living on ‘free’ soil, could still be taken back to the South and reclaimed by his owner, and also that blacks are not allowed to testify in court because according to the law they are not citizens. This ruling overturned the Missouri Compromise of 1820 that set a boundary on slavery, along with adding fire to the abolitionist cause due to its derogatory take free blacks. This case was similar to the issue of secession because it was not laid out in the constitution and was debated a lot during this time period. Not only is it related because it dealt with an issue not mentioned in the constitution, but it is also related because it increased tensions between the North and the South.
The disagreement over secession was not ended quickly, and to get to a solution on this issue unfortunately many lives were lost. The North and the South could not agree on the legality of secession, and as a result they ended up fighting the bloodiest war in American history.

