According to the National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration (NHTSA), about 13,000 lives in America are saved every year because of seat belts. About 7,000 of the fatal car crash occurrences wouldn’t have happened last year if the driver and/or passenger had been wearing their seat belt(s). The seat belt has saved many lives throughout the years of their existence. More people should wear their seat belt, because it could save their life. The seat belt's history, purpose, and how they affect people will be the focus of this paper.

(Revised) The history of the seatbelt is not a complicated one, although it has made a difference in many people’s lives. The first seat belt was a simple two-point seat belt, also known as the lap belt, was invented by E.J. Clanghorn in 1885.  This life saving invention wasn’t used until 1910 on a U.S. Army airplane. The two point, now known as the lap belt, could potentially cause internal organ damage, but it was better than nothing.  Later the three-point seat belt would be invented by Nils Bohlin in 1959. This three-point design was more effective, because it held the upper and lower body. With the invention of the seat belt the history of safety has changed drastically, and even though seat belts have gone through many changes their purpose remains the same.

 The seat belt was invented to protect the user from flying forward and hitting the windshield, steering wheel, or dashboard, on a sudden stop. There are two designs of seat belts, the two-point and the three-point. The two point only secures only the lower body, but the three-point is much safer, because it secures both upper and lower body. The safety features that are in most cars, such as airbags and brakes, are not enough to stay safe while driving. Both the seat belt and the other safety features need to be used together and work as a team. For example, when people wear their seat belt properly the airbag will work, and decrease risk of death by 30%. The airbag can cause damage to the face and neck when it inflates to close to the face, and the seat belt helps hold people back, keeping them safe. Another way some certain seat belts can keep people safe is by using load limiters. These allow the webbing of the seat belt to stretch a bit further when there is more force applied to the belt; therefore, this is safer because the impact won't be as hard on the body. Even though seat belts were invented over a hundred years ago, they continue to impact people by the thousands each year.

The seat belt has touched thousands of lives since they were first invented. Between the years 2004-2008 an estimate of 75,000 lives were saved because of the seat belt. A huge factor being the seat belt reduces risk of death in the front seat(s) by 50%. There are seat belt laws in 49 states and Washington D.C.  (the only one without the law being New Hampshire). Only 31 states and Washington D.C. have primary enforcement, which means that they can pull them over at any time for not wearing their seat belt, while the other 19 states have secondary enforcement, which means they can only be fined for not wearing their seat belt if they have committed another traffic violation people in primary enforcement states are more 13% more likely to wear their seat belt. Unsurprisingly the states with primary enforcement are 13% more likely to be buckled up. An average of 42% of people that have died in car accidents didn't wear their seat belt, but the good news is the percent of national seat belt use has gone up from only 69% use in 1998 to 88% in 2009. The seat belt has saved many lives and prevented many major and minor injuries, and could save even more if everyone wore their seat belt.


Since the seat belt was first invented, they have gone through many changes, and will continue to improve in the future. The history, purpose and how they impact people has affected society in many different ways. This seat belt will go on to safe many more lives in the future. Seat belts help more than hurt people the majority of the time, but in the rare case of my cousin, it wouldn’t have mattered. 
