The short story, To Build a Fire, by Jack London, is about an unnamed man trying to survive a trip through the freezing wilderness on his own. In the story he makes many bad decisions that eventually end up costing him his life. He could have prevented this ending if he would have thought more about his decisions and listened to other people, but instead he decided to disregard their suggestions.      
One bad decision the man in the story makes is starting his trip in the first place. On page two, London wrote, “He was quick and alert in the things of life, but not in their significances.” The man’s main problem with decision making is completely described in this one sentence. In other words, the man knew that it was cold, but he couldn’t connect the pieces to understand that traveling in the dangerously cold weather was a horrible idea. Deciding to travel alone was a bad decision because if he were to get in any kind of trouble, he would only have himself to rely on. If he would have chosen to wait and go on a warmer day, he might have had a better chance of survival. This part of the story shows why the man’s bad decisions got him in trouble because right from the start he didn’t put enough thought into his choices. 
Another bad decision that the man made in the story was not listening to other experienced people. An example of this can be found in the story when the man remembers what an older guy had told him, and the man thinks he has proven him wrong by saving himself after falling into a pool of water. In the story the man recalls, “The old-timer had been very serious about laying down the law that no man must travel in the Klondike after fifty below. Well, here he was; he had had the accident; he was alone; and he had saved himself” (London 7). The man ignored the experienced guy’s warning and was traveling anyways, but then he stepped in water and was required to start a fire to dry of his clothes. The man felt pretty good about saving himself from what could have been almost certain death, but from there everything starts going downhill. The fire goes out when snow falls onto it from some trees, and then his fingers are so numb he is unable to light a match and start another fire. In the story, the man admits to himself that the older man was probably right when he thinks, “Perhaps the old-timer on Sulphur Creek had been right. If he had a trail-mate he would have been in no danger now” (London 8). The man was worried about having to start another fire with already having numb fingers and toes, and regrets not listening to the more experienced man. This shows why not listening to other people and traveling by himself was a bad decision because the man ends up suffering from not listening to the man, and then regretting it.  
The man possible could have survived if he had listened to others and using what he knew to his advantage. Unfortunately he didn’t, which resulted in his death. The man realized he should have listened to the old man right before he died when he said, “You were right, old hoss; you were right” (London 13).  

